---
course: CS61A
term: Spring 2022
assessment: MT2
problem_number: 8
problem_title: "CS 61A Presents The Game of Hoop."
points: "21.0 points"
santai_chunk_type: "exam_problem"
---

# Problem 8 — CS 61A Presents The Game of Hoop.

## Semantic summary
CS61A problem involving core concepts like evaluation, recursion, or data structures.

## Full extracted content

## Page 17

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
8. (21.0 points)
CS 61A Presents The Game of Hoop.
When we introduced the Hog project to you, we designed the rules of the game in a way that would make it
possible to implement without using more advanced concepts like OOP and iterators/generators. Now that
we’ve learned these concepts, you can rewrite parts of the game and expand it! The new version, called Hoop,
will support any number of players greater than or equal to 2.
Assume the following changes from Hog:
• All rules have been taken out except for the Sow Sad rule, which is reiterated below.
• Each player’s strategy is a function strategy(own_score, other_scores) that takes in that player’s
score and a list of the other players’ scores, and outputs the number of times that player wishes to roll the
dice during their turn. Order doesn’t matter for the list of other players’ scores.
• You don’t have to keep track of the leader, and there is no commentary mechanism.
Sow Sad: If a player rolls any number of 1s in their turn, their score for that set of rolls is a 1 regardless of
whatever else they rolled.
To start, take a look at the HoopPlayer class, which represents one player in our game:
class HoopPlayer:
def __init__(self, strategy):
"""Initialize a player with STRATEGY, and a starting SCORE of 0. The
STRATEGY should be a function that takes this player's score and a list
of other players' scores.
"""
self.strategy = strategy
self.score = 0
Every game of Hoop will involve rolling a dice as well. Take a look at the HoopDice class, which represents a
rollable dice that takes a set of values. You’ll fill in the blanks in the first part of this question.
class HoopDice:
def __init__(self, values):
"""Initialize a dice with possible values VALUES, and a starting INDEX
of 0. The INDEX indicates which value from VALUES to return when the
dice is rolled next.
"""
self.values = values
self.index = 0
def roll(self):
"""Roll this dice. Advance the index to the next step before returning.
"""
value = ______________
______________ = (______________) % ______________
return value

## Page 18

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(a) (4.0 points)
The Dice: Making it Rollable
Begin by making the HoopDice rollable. Fill in the skeleton for the HoopDice.roll method below. See
above for the rest of HoopDice.
class HoopDice:
...
def roll(self):
"""Roll this dice. Advance the index to the next step before
returning.
>>> five_six = HoopDice([5, 6])
>>> five_six.roll()
>>> five_six.index
>>> five_six.roll()
>>> five_six.index
"""
value = ______________
(1a)
______________ = (______________) % ______________
(1b)
(1c)
(1d)
return value
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (1a)
self.values[self.index]
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (1b)
self.index
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (1c)
self.index + 1
iv. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (1d)
len(self.values)

## Page 19

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(b) (2.0 points)
The Game: Looping Through Players
For the rest of the question, assume that HoopDice.roll is implemented correctly, regardless of
your answers above.
In the rest of the question, you will work on making the game itself. Take a look at the HoopGame class,
which takes in the setup for your game and makes it playable. You’ll fill in the blanks shortly.
class HoopGame:
def __init__(self, players, dice, goal):
"""Initialize a game with a list of PLAYERS, which contains at least one
HoopPlayer, a single HoopDice DICE, and a goal score of GOAL.
"""
self.players = players
self.dice = dice
self.goal = goal
def next_player(self):
"""Infinitely yields the next player in the game, in order."""
yield from ______________
yield from ______________
def get_scores(self):
"""Collects and returns a list of the current scores for all players
in the same order as the SELF.PLAYERS list.
"""
# Implementation omitted. Assume this method works correctly.
def get_scores_except(self, player):
"""Collects and returns a list of the current scores for all players
except PLAYER.
"""
return [______________ for pl in ______________ if ______________]
def roll_dice(self, num_rolls):
"""Simulate rolling SELF.DICE exactly NUM_ROLLS > 0 times. Return sum of
the outcomes unless any of the outcomes is 1. In that case, return 1.
"""
outcomes = [______________ for x in ______________]
ones = [______________ for outcome in outcomes]
return 1 if ______________(ones) else ______________(outcomes)
def play(self):
"""Play the game while no player has reached or exceeded the goal score.
After the game ends, return all players' scores.
"""
player_gen = self.next_player()
while max(self.get_scores()) < self.goal:
player = ______________(player_gen)
other_scores = self.get_scores_except(player)
num_rolls = ______________(player.score, other_scores)
outcome = self.roll_dice(num_rolls)
______________ += outcome
return self.get_scores()
To see what the expected behavior of each method is, take a look at its doctests. These will be provided
for the relevant methods in each subpart for the rest of the question.

## Page 20

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
In all following subparts, assume that the following has already been run to set up the game:
>>> roll_once_strategy = lambda pl, ops: 1
>>> roll_twice_strategy = lambda pl, ops: 2
>>> always_5 = HoopDice([5])
>>> player1 = HoopPlayer(roll_twice_strategy)
>>> player2 = HoopPlayer(roll_once_strategy)
>>> player3 = HoopPlayer(lambda pl, ops: 6)
>>> game = HoopGame([player1, player2, player3], always_5, 55)
>>> # since we omit the implementation of HoopGame.get_scores, here's what it
>>> # should output:
>>> game.get_scores()
[0, 0, 0]
The first HoopGame method you’ll implement is HoopGame.next_player, which gives the game a way to
iterate over all of the players playing, in order to give them each a turn in order.
class HoopGame:
...
def next_player(self):
"""Infinitely yields the next player in the game, in order.
>>> player_gen = game.next_player()
>>> next(player_gen) is player1
True
>>> next(player_gen) is player3
False
>>> next(player_gen) is player3
True
>>> next(player_gen) is player1
True
>>> next(player_gen) is player2
True
>>> new_player_gen = game.next_player()
>>> next(new_player_gen) is player1
True
>>> next(player_gen) is player3
True
"""
yield from ______________
(2a)
yield from ______________
(2b)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (2a)
self.players
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (2b)
self.next_player()

## Page 21

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(c) (3.0 points)
The Game: Getting Scores
The HoopGame.get_scores method is already fully implemented and provides a way to get a list of the
scores of all players.
However, each player’s strategy relies on the player’s opponents’ scores, so HoopGame also needs a method
that gives the scores of all players except the current one. Fill in the skeleton for HoopGame.get_scores_except
below. Keep in mind that multiple players may have the same score.
class HoopGame:
...
def get_scores_except(self, player):
"""Collects and returns a list of the current scores for all players
except PLAYER.
>>> game.get_scores_except(player2)
[0, 0]
"""
return [______________ for pl in ______________ if ______________]
(3a)
(3b)
(3c)
As a reminder, here’s what the HoopPlayer class looks like:
class HoopPlayer:
def __init__(self, strategy):
"""Initialize a player with STRATEGY, and a starting SCORE of 0. The
STRATEGY should be a function that takes this player's score and a list
of other players' scores.
"""
self.strategy = strategy
self.score = 0
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (3a)
pl.score
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (3b)
self.players
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (3c)
pl is not player

## Page 22

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(d) (5.0 points)
The Game: Rolling Dice
Next, give HoopGame the ability to roll its dice some given number of times and return the total from
rolling all those times. Recall that the dice in the game is just a single dice, represented by the HoopDice
instance at self.dice. Fill in the skeleton for HoopGame.roll_dice below:
class HoopGame:
...
def roll_dice(self, num_rolls):
"""Simulate rolling SELF.DICE exactly NUM_ROLLS > 0 times. Return sum of
the outcomes unless any of the outcomes is 1. In that case, return 1.
>>> game.roll_dice(4)
"""
outcomes = [______________ for x in ______________]
(4a)
(4b)
ones = [______________ for outcome in outcomes]
(4c)
return 1 if ______________(ones) else ______________(outcomes)
(4d)
(4e)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (4a)
self.dice.roll()
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (4b)
range(num_rolls)
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (4c)
outcome == 1
iv. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (4d)
any
v. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (4e)
sum

## Page 23

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(e) (3.0 points)
The Game: Putting it all Together
Finally, it’s time to play the game! Recall that a player’s strategy depends on two inputs: the player’s own
score, and a list of the scores of the player’s opponents. Using existing attributes wherever possible, fill in
the skeleton for HoopGame.play below:
class HoopGame:
...
def play(self):
"""Play the game while no player has reached or exceeded the goal score.
After the game ends, return all players' scores.
>>> game.play()
[20, 10, 60]
"""
player_gen = self.next_player()
while max(self.get_scores()) < self.goal:
player = ______________(player_gen)
(5a)
other_scores = self.get_scores_except(player)
num_rolls = ______________(player.score, other_scores)
(5b)
outcome = self.roll_dice(num_rolls)
______________ += outcome
(5c)
return self.get_scores()
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (5a)
next
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (5b)
player.strategy
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (5c)
player.score

## Page 24

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(f) (4.0 points)
The Dice: It’s Broken!
Now that you’ve finished implementing the game, you’ll implement a new kind of BrokenHoopDice. This
dice extends HoopDice, but is broken! That is, it alternates between behaving like a normal dice and
returning when_broken value between turns.
For this part of the question, you may not use = or lambda.
class BrokenHoopDice(HoopDice):
def __init__(self, values, when_broken):
______________(values)
(6a)
self.when_broken = when_broken
self.______________ = False
(6b)
def roll(self):
"""
>>> broken = BrokenHoopDice([5, 6, 7], 11)
>>> broken.roll()
>>> [broken.roll() for _ in range(6)]
[11, 6, 11, 7, 11, 5]
"""
if self.is_broken:
self.is_broken = not self.is_broken
return ______________
(6c)
else:
self.is_broken = not self.is_broken
return ______________()
(6d)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (6a)
super().__init__
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (6b)
is_broken
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (6c)
self.when_broken
iv. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (6d)
super().roll


---

## Same Semester

- [61a-sp22-final / P01](../61a-sp22-final/p01.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P02](../61a-sp22-final/p02.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P03](../61a-sp22-final/p03.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P04](../61a-sp22-final/p04.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P05](../61a-sp22-final/p05.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P06](../61a-sp22-final/p06.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P07](../61a-sp22-final/p07.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P08](../61a-sp22-final/p08.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P09](../61a-sp22-final/p09.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P10](../61a-sp22-final/p10.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P11](../61a-sp22-final/p11.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P12](../61a-sp22-final/p12.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P13](../61a-sp22-final/p13.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P14](../61a-sp22-final/p14.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P15](../61a-sp22-final/p15.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P16](../61a-sp22-final/p16.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P17](../61a-sp22-final/p17.md)
- [61a-sp22-final / P18](../61a-sp22-final/p18.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P01](../61a-sp22-mt1/p01.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P02](../61a-sp22-mt1/p02.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P03](../61a-sp22-mt1/p03.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P04](../61a-sp22-mt1/p04.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P05](../61a-sp22-mt1/p05.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt1 / P06](../61a-sp22-mt1/p06.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P01](p01.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P02](p02.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P03](p03.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P04](p04.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P05](p05.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P06](p06.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P07](p07.md)
- [61a-sp22-mt2 / P09](p09.md)
