---
course: CS61A
term: Spring 2024
assessment: Final
problem_number: 6
problem_title: "Scheme"
points: "6.0 points"
---

# Problem 6 — Scheme

## Page 17

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
6. (6.0 points)
Scheme
A nested list of numbers is a list containing numbers and nested lists of numbers. For example: ((7 5) 3
((1)) 9)
Implement truths, which takes a nested list of numbers s and a one-argument procedure f. It returns the
count of numbers x in s for which (f x) returns a true value.
scm> (define (eight? x) (and (number? x) (= x 8)))
scm> (truths '(8 (8 ((3 8)) 8 ())) eight?)
scm> (truths '(8 (8 ((3 8)) 8 ())) number?)
Hint: The built-in number? procedure returns whether its argument is a number.
(define (truths s f)
(if (null? s) 0
(+
(if (number? (car s)) _______ (truths _______ f))
; first argument to +
(a)
(b)
_______ )))
; second argument to +
(c)
(a) (3.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
(if (f (car s)) 1 0)
(b) (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
# s
(car s)
# (cdr s)
# (list s)
(c) (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
# nil
# 0
# 1
# f
# s
# (f s)
# truths
(truths (cdr s) f)

## Page 18

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(d) (0.0 pt) This A+ question is not worth any points. It can only affect your course grade if
you have a high A and might receive an A+. Finish the rest of the exam first!
Fill in blank (d) to implement eights, which returns the number of eights that appear in a row at the
beginning of a nested list s.
scm> (eights '(8 8 8 3 8))
scm> (eights '((8 (8) 8) (3) 8 ()))
scm> (eights '(8 (8 ((8 3 8)) 8 ())))
scm> (eights '(7 (8 ((3 8)) 8 ())))
You may call truths. The only special form you may use to fill in the blank is if.
;;; Return the number of eights at the start of a nested list of numbers s.
(define (eights s)
(cond
((null? s) 0)
((eight? (car s)) (+ 1 (eights (cdr s))))
((number? (car s)) 0)
(else (let ((k (eights (car s)))) (+ k _______ ) ))))
(d)
(if (< k (truths (car s) number?)) 0 (eights (cdr s)))


---

## Same Semester

- [61a-sp24-final / P01](p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P02](p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P03](p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P04](p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P05](p05.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P07](p07.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P01](../61a-sp24-mt1/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P02](../61a-sp24-mt1/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P03](../61a-sp24-mt1/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P04](../61a-sp24-mt1/p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P01](../61a-sp24-mt2/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P02](../61a-sp24-mt2/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P03](../61a-sp24-mt2/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P04](../61a-sp24-mt2/p04.md)
