---
course: CS61A
term: Spring 2025
assessment: Final
problem_number: 9
problem_title: "A+"
points: "0.0 points"
---

# Problem 9 — A+

## Page 17

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
9. (0.0 points)
A+
These two A+ questions are not worth any points. They can only affect your course grade if you
have a high A and might receive an A+. Finish the rest of the exam first!
(a) (0.0 pt) Fill in the blank to implement swap, which takes a list s and non-negative numbers t and u. It
returns a list with the same elements as s, but with the elements at indices t and u swapped. Do not
write if, and, or, or lambda. You may not call functions from elsewhere on the exam. Hint: Try using a
dictionary.
def swap(s, t, u):
"""Return a new list like s but with the elements at positions t and u swapped.
>>> letters = ['p', 'q', 'r', 's']
>>> swap(letters, 0, 2)
['r', 'q', 'p', 's']
>>> letters
['p', 'q', 'r', 's']
"""
return [ _______ for x in range(len(s)) ]
s[{t: u, u: t}.get(x, x)]

## Page 18

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(b) (0.0 pt) Fill in the blank to implement equal, which takes a string digits containing digits from 1 to 9 and
an integer n for which can_equal(digits, n) returns True. It returns a string s containing all of digits
and zero or more + or - symbols such that eval(s) == n. You may call eval and can_equal. If there is
more than one possible return value, return any of them. Important: For credit, your implementation
must ensure that the generator returned by f only yields as many values as necessary for correctness (and
no more).
def equal(digits, n):
"""Return a string containing digits and + and - that evaluates to n.
>>> equal('45332', 527)
'-4+533-2'
>>> equal('45332', 38)
'4+5-3+32'
"""
assert can_equal(digits, n)
def f(digits):
yield digits
yield '-' + digits
for k in range(1, len(digits)):
for rest in f(digits[k:]):
yield digits[:k] + '+' + rest
yield digits[:k] + '-' + rest
yield '-' + digits[:k] + '+' + rest
yield '-' + digits[:k] + '-' + rest
return _______
next(filter(lambda x: eval(x) == n, f(digits)))

## Page 19

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
No more questions.


---

## Same Semester

- [61a-sp25-final / P01](p01.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P02](p02.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P03](p03.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P04](p04.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P05](p05.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P06](p06.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P07](p07.md)
- [61a-sp25-final / P08](p08.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt1 / P01](../61a-sp25-mt1/p01.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt1 / P02](../61a-sp25-mt1/p02.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt1 / P03](../61a-sp25-mt1/p03.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt1 / P04](../61a-sp25-mt1/p04.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt1 / P05](../61a-sp25-mt1/p05.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt2 / P01](../61a-sp25-mt2/p01.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt2 / P02](../61a-sp25-mt2/p02.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt2 / P03](../61a-sp25-mt2/p03.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt2 / P04](../61a-sp25-mt2/p04.md)
- [61a-sp25-mt2 / P05](../61a-sp25-mt2/p05.md)
