---
course: CS61A
term: Spring 2024
assessment: MT2
problem_number: 3
problem_title: "Fearless"
points: "8.0 points"
---

# Problem 3 — Fearless

## Page 6

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
3. (8.0 points)
Fearless
If you sing lyrics into a mic, every connected speaker repeats them.
A Mic instance has a dictionary speakers containing Speaker instances as values, each with its location (str)
as its key. Its sing method takes a string lyrics and invokes the repeat method of each Speaker instance
connected to it.
A Speaker takes a transform function that takes and returns a string. To connect a Speaker instance to m
(Mic) in a location (str), add that instance to the speakers dictionary of m in that location. To repeat a
signal s (str), return the result of calling the speaker’s transform function on s.
Every Mic starts connected to a Speaker in the Front location that repeats the exact same signal it receives.
Implement the Mic and Speaker classes to match the doctests. The str.lower and str.upper functions return
lowercased and uppercased versions of a string, respectively.
class Mic:
"""A microphone connected to speakers.
>>> m = Mic()
# Front is connected automatically
>>> m.sing('Is this thing on?')
Front - Is this thing on?
>>> Speaker(str.lower).connect(m, 'Left Side')
>>> Speaker(str.upper).connect(m, 'Right Side')
>>> m.sing("You belong with me.")
Front - You belong with me.
Left Side - you belong with me.
Right Side - YOU BELONG WITH ME.
"""
def __init__(self):
self.speakers = _______
(a)
def sing(self, lyrics):
for k in self.speakers.keys():
# iterate over the keys of a dictionary
print(k, '-', _______.repeat(lyrics))
(b)
class Speaker:
def __init__(self, transform):
self.transform = transform
def connect(self, m, location):
_______
(c)
def repeat(self, s):
return _______
(d)
(a) (3.0 pt)
{'Front': Speaker(lambda x: x)}

## Page 7

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(b) (2.0 pt)
# self
# self.speaker
# self.speakers
self.speakers[k]
# self.speakers[k].self
# speaker
# speakers
# speakers[k]
# speakers[k].self
(c) (2.0 pt)
m.speakers[location] = self
(d) (1.0 pt)
# s
# lyrics
# transform
# transform(s)
# transform(lyrics)
# self.transform
self.transform(s)
# self.transform(lyrics)


---

## Same Semester

- [61a-sp24-final / P01](../61a-sp24-final/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P02](../61a-sp24-final/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P03](../61a-sp24-final/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P04](../61a-sp24-final/p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P05](../61a-sp24-final/p05.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P06](../61a-sp24-final/p06.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P07](../61a-sp24-final/p07.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P01](../61a-sp24-mt1/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P02](../61a-sp24-mt1/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P03](../61a-sp24-mt1/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P04](../61a-sp24-mt1/p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P01](p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P02](p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P04](p04.md)
