---
course: CS61A
term: Spring 2024
assessment: MT2
problem_number: 4
problem_title: "Who’s counting?"
points: "29.0 points"
---

# Problem 4 — Who’s counting?

## Page 8

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
4. (29.0 points)
Who’s counting?
Definition. A strip is a list of integers in which each integer is one more than the last. For example, [3, 4,
5, 6] is a strip. Empty and one-element lists are strips.
(a) (4.0 points)
Implement is_strip, which takes a list of integers s and returns whether it is a strip.
def is_strip(s):
"""Return whether list s is a strip.
>>> is_strip([3, 4, 5, 6])
True
>>> is_strip([3, 3, 3])
# 3 after 3
False
>>> is_strip([3, 4, 5, 4, 6])
# 4 after 5
False
>>> is_strip([3, 4, 5, 5, 6])
# 5 after 5
False
>>> is_strip([3, 4, 5, 6, 8])
# 8 after 6
False
>>> is_strip([5])
True
>>> is_strip([])
True
"""
assert type(s) == list
return _______ or s == list ( range ( _______ , _______ ))
(a)
(b)
(c)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
len(s) == 0
# s[0] + 1 == s[1]
# s[0] + 1 in s
# s[0] + 1 in s[1:]
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
s[0]
iii. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
# s
# s[0]
# s[1]
# s[0] + 1
s[0] + len(s)
# s[len(s) - 1]
# s[1] - s[0]

## Page 9

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(b) (7.0 points)
Implement drip, which takes two non-empty lists of integers s and t. It returns True if there is a strip
containing all and only the elements of s and t starting with s[0] in which the elements of s appear in
order and the elements of t appear in order. It returns False otherwise.
def drip(s, t):
"""Return whether there is a strip made out of interleaving s and t.
>>> drip([1, 3, 5], [2, 4, 6])
# 1 2 3 4 5 6
True
>>> drip([1, 4, 5], [2, 3, 6])
# 1 2 3 4 5 6
True
>>> drip([1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6])
# 1 2 3 4 5 6
True
>>> drip([2, 4, 5], [1, 3, 6])
# No strip starting with 2 can contain 1
False
>>> drip([1, 2, 4, 5], [1, 3, 6]) # No strip can contain 1 and 1
False
>>> drip([1, 4, 5], [2, 3, 7])
# No strip can contain 5 and 7 but no 6
False
>>> drip([1, 5, 4], [2, 3, 6])
# No strip can contain 5 before 4
False
>>> drip([2], [3, 4, 5])
# 2 3 4 5
True
>>> drip([1], [2, 3, 5])
# No strip can contain 3 and 5 but no 4
False
"""
while s and t:
if s[0] + 1 == t[0]:
s, t = _______
# The next element of the strip is in t
(a)
elif _______:
(b)
s = s[1:]
# The next element of the strip is in s
else:
return _______
(c)
return _______
(d)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
# t, s
t, s[1:]
# t[1:], s
ii. (3.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
len(s) > 1 and s[0] + 1 == s[1]

## Page 10

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
False
# s[0] != t[0]
# is_strip(s) or is_strip(t)
# not (is_strip(s) or is_strip(t))
# is_strip(s) and is_strip(t)
# not (is_strip(s) and is_strip(t))
iv. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (d).
# True
# is_strip(s)
# is_strip(t)
# is_strip(s) or is_strip(t)
# not (is_strip(s) or is_strip(t))
is_strip(s) and is_strip(t)
# not (is_strip(s) and is_strip(t))

## Page 11

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(c) (6.0 points)
Implement longest, which takes a list of integers s. It returns the longest strip whose elements appear in
s in order. If two such strips exist, return the one that starts earlier in s. Hint: s[-1] is the last element
in list s.
def longest(s):
"""Return the longest strip whose elements appear in s in order.
>>> longest([4, 2, 3, 5, 6, 4, 6, 5])
# 2 3 4 5 is the longest strip in s
[2, 3, 4, 5]
>>> longest([4, 2, 3, 5, 6, 4])
# 4 5 6 is as long as 2 3 4 and is earlier
[4, 5, 6]
>>> longest([2, 4, 6])
[2]
"""
if len(s) == 0:
return []
return max([longest_with_s0(s), _______ ], key= _______ )
(a)
(b)
def longest_with_s0(s):
"""Return the longest strip in s that starts with s[0]."""
result = _______
(c)
for k in s[1:]:
if _______:
(d)
result.append(k)
return result
i. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
longest(s[1:])
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
len
# len(s)
# s[0]
# lambda i: s[i]
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
# []
# [s]
# s[0]
s[:1]
iv. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (d).
k == result[-1] + 1

## Page 12

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(d) (5.0 points)
Implement has_strip, which takes a Tree of integers t. It returns whether there is a strip containing the
labels along some path from the root to a leaf of t. The Tree class is on the midterm 2 study guide (page
2 left side).
def has_strip(t):
"""Return whether the elements of some root-to-leaf path form a strip.
>>> has_strip(Tree(1, [Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(2, [Tree(2), Tree(3)])])) # 1, 2, 3
True
>>> has_strip(Tree(1, [Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(2, [Tree(2, [Tree(3)])])]))
False
>>> has_strip(Tree(1, [Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(2, [Tree(2)])]))
False
>>> has_strip(Tree(1, [Tree(2, [Tree(4)]), Tree(3, [Tree(3)])]))
False
"""
if t.is_leaf():
return _______
(a)
for b in t.branches:
if _______
(b)
return True
return _______
(c)
i. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
True
# False
# t
# t.label
# t.label == t + 1
# t + 1 == t.label
ii. (3.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
b.label == t.label + 1 and has_strip(b)
iii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
# True
False
# t
# t.label
# t.label == t + 1
# t + 1 == t.label

## Page 13

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
(e) (7.0 points)
Implement strips, a generator function that takes a Tree of integers t. It yields all strips that contain
the labels along a path from the root to a leaf of t.
def strips(t):
"""Yield the paths from the root to a leaf of Tree t that form strips.
>>> list(strips(Tree(1, [Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(2, [Tree(2), Tree(3)])])))
[[1, 2, 3]]
>>> list(strips(Tree(1, [Tree(2), Tree(2, [Tree(2), Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(3)])])))
[[1, 2], [1, 2, 3, 4], [1, 2, 3]]
"""
if t.is_leaf():
yield _______
(a)
for b in t.branches:
if _______:
(b)
for s in _______:
(c)
yield _______
(d)
i. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (a).
# None
# t
# t.label
# [t]
[t.label]
ii. (1.0 pt) Fill in blank (b).
# t.label == b.label + 1
b.label == t.label + 1
# t.label == b.label + 1 and is_strip(b)
# b.label == t.label + 1 and is_strip(b)
iii. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (c).
# strips(t)
strips(b)
# t.branches
# b.branches
# range(len(t.branches))
# range(len(b.branches))

## Page 14

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
iv. (2.0 pt) Fill in blank (d).
# s
# t
# t + s
# t.label + s
# [t] + s
[t.label] + s
# [t] + [s]
# [t.label] + [s]
v. (0.0 pt) This A+ question is not worth any points. It can only affect your course grade if
you have a high A and might receive an A+. Finish the rest of the exam first!
Fill in the blank of only_strips, which takes a Tree of integers t. It removes all nodes that are not
on a strip path. A strip path is a path from the root to a leaf whose labels form a strip. You may use
functions implemented earlier in this question.
def test_only_strips(t):
"""Call only_strips(t) and then return t. Assume has_strip(t) is True.
>>> test_only_strips(Tree(1, [Tree(2), Tree(2, [Tree(2), Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(3)])]))
Tree(1, [Tree(2), Tree(2, [Tree(3, [Tree(4)]), Tree(3)])])
>>> test_only_strips(Tree(5, [Tree(6), Tree(6, [Tree(7, [Tree(9)])]), Tree(7)]))
Tree(5, [Tree(6)])
"""
only_strips(t)
return t
def only_strips(t):
"""Remove all nodes of Tree t that are not on a path from the root to a leaf
whose labels form a strip. Assume has_strip(t) is True.
"""
t.branches = [b for b in t.branches if _______]
has_strip(b) and (only_strips(b) or t.label + 1 == b.label)

## Page 15

Exam generated for <EMAILADDRESS>
No more questions.


---

## Same Semester

- [61a-sp24-final / P01](../61a-sp24-final/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P02](../61a-sp24-final/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P03](../61a-sp24-final/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P04](../61a-sp24-final/p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P05](../61a-sp24-final/p05.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P06](../61a-sp24-final/p06.md)
- [61a-sp24-final / P07](../61a-sp24-final/p07.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P01](../61a-sp24-mt1/p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P02](../61a-sp24-mt1/p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P03](../61a-sp24-mt1/p03.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt1 / P04](../61a-sp24-mt1/p04.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P01](p01.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P02](p02.md)
- [61a-sp24-mt2 / P03](p03.md)
